hey sylvia perez here let's talk about
everything you need to know
about google ads match types this video
is going to be broken down into three
sections number one we're going to talk
about what are match types
number two we're going to talk about the
four different types of match types and
the number three we're gonna
talk about the pros and cons of each so
by the end of this video you're gonna
have a really comprehensive
understanding
on what google ads match types are and
how you can use them in your google ads
campaigns
to generate the highest revenue possible
so what are google ads match types match
types are the guard rails you place on
your keywords
to regulate how google goes about
determining whether or not they're going
to show
your ads for the different searches that
your keywords triggered
so your keywords are the what the things
you want to show up for
but your match types determine how you
go about showing up for those different
searches
so depending on what a searcher typed in
the search bar when they went to
google.com
your match types will determine whether
or not google can show your ads
a common mistake new google advertisers
make is they don't use match types
and when you don't use match types
you're allowing google to have full
control
and to determine whether or not they're
going to show your ads and what usually
happens when you give google full
control
is they show your ads for all the
different types of searches whether
they're quality traffic or not
and usually what happens is you end up
blowing out your budget and then you end
up screaming google ads doesn't work
and really you have to understand that
google's job is for you to spend
money and your job is to have your ads
show up at the right time for the right
searches
in the right location and the way you
can do that is using match types
by the way if you want direct help with
your google ads campaigns go ahead and
join the google ads pro facebook group
this is a free group
where you can connect and network with
other google advertisers
that are looking to grow their business
and generate leads with google ads
now let's go ahead and talk about the
four different types of match types here
are the four different types of match
types this is an order from the most
broad
starting with broad match to the most
narrow going to exact match you can also
think of it as the
least roi to the greatest roi so let's
go ahead and deep dive into each one
so first and foremost broad match this
is the most broad of all the four match
types
with broad match you are giving google
full control essentially and you're
telling google hey
if anything is closely related or
remotely related
based on google's algorithms and how
they determine this
show my ad for those different searches
so with broad match you're going to get
a lot of visibility
but you're also going to get a lot of
junk the next one is broad match
modified
this is a great mix between visibility
and control so with broad match modified
you're telling google i only want you to
show my ads
for these different searches if they
have these specific keywords in the
search that the searcher made
and the way you signify that is with the
plus sign so broad match modified is
signified with the plus sign behind each
keyword so plus broad
plus match plus modified so if you want
to bid on a certain keyword in your
google ads account
and you want to use the broad match
modified match type you have to put a
plus sign
behind each one of those keywords then
the next one is phrase match
phrase match is signified between the
quotation marks and with phrase match
you're telling google
i only want you to show my ads if
someone searches in the search bar
specifically in this order that i
signified in between these quotations
so if you're bidding on a certain
keyword they have to search that keyword
in the exact same order
in order for your ad to show up and then
last but not least we have exact match
and this is exactly what it sounds like
they have to search exactly
what you signified in between the
bracket in order for your ads to show
or closely very closely related to what
you signified in that bracket
here's an example of broad match let's
say i wanted to get more google ads
clients and i wanted to bid on the
keyword google ads consultant so if
someone goes to google.com
and they search google ads consultant in
let's say the united states
i want to show up because i want to get
their business i want to get in the
radar
et cetera et cetera so if i'm bidding on
the keyword google ads consultant and
i'm using the broad match
match type i would just have the keyword
as is google ads consultant
and these are examples of searches that
my ad would appear for
so i would show up for searches like
google ads consultant google ads careers
working at google google ads support
website
now i want google ads clients i want
leads for people who are interested in
offering you know they want to outsource
their google ads and they want me to
take over their accounts and manage it
for them
so working at google google ads careers
google ads support website these are
junk searches that i do not want to show
up for so with broad match i'm going to
get a lot of visibility and i'm going to
show up for
anything closely related or whatever
google determines in their crazy
algorithms on what is relevant to
google ads consultant so the biggest
downside here is i can show up for a lot
of junk
like google ads support website working
at google and google ads careers
when i'm only looking for a very
specific type of searcher
which are people who want to hire
someone like myself
to manage their google ads campaigns the
next example is broad match modified
so broad match modified going again the
example of google ads consultant
i would go ahead and put a plus sign
behind each one of the keywords so plus
google
plus ads plus consultant and what this
does is it tells
google that the search must have the
words that you
designate with the plus sign in the
search that the searcher made
so it can be in any order but they have
to have these words that i signified
with the plus sign
so for example here are some searches
that i would show up for i would show up
for google as consultant
i would show up for consultant google
ads because again
it needs to have these three words
because i signify that with the plus
sign and you can see
the three words are in there even though
the order is not the same
also i would show up for a consultant
that provides google ad services
because again these three words google
ads consultant
are in the search i'd also show up for
how to become a google ads consultant
that is not a kind of good search that i
want because i'm trying to get clients
i'm not trying to teach people how to
become a google ads consultant in this
case
so what i would do is i would add this
search as a negative keyword
and when you're using the broad match
modified match type you need to do a
good job of checking your search terms
report
and building up your negative keyword
list as fast as possible so that you're
pulling in
as close to perfect search terms as
quickly as possible
the next example is phrase match so
phrase match is signified with the
quotations
so if i want to show up for google ads
consultant and i'm using the phrase
match match type
the search must have the keywords that
you designate in the exact same order
when the searcher searches on google so
here's examples of searches that i would
show up for
using phrase match so i'd show up for
google ads consultant near me
because google ads and consultant is in
the exact same order
so if someone searched consultant google
ads i would not show up
because it has to be in this specific
order i'd also show up for how to become
a google ads consultant
i'd show up for upwork google ads
consultant because google ads and
consultant is in the exact same order
and then i'd also show up for pro bono
google ads consultant
so pro bono upwork and maybe how to
become a google ads consultant
maybe these are ones that i want to add
as a negative keyword so i don't show up
for these
and i show up for more high quality
searches like google ads consultant near
me
last match type is exact match and this
is the most specific match type of all
four match types it's also the one
that's going to provide you the highest
return on your investment
and that is because with exact match
you're getting very specific
laser focused on exactly the types of
searches that you want your ads to show
up for
so the exact match is signified with the
bracket sign and the search must equal
or
very closely relate to the keywords you
designate within those brackets
it used to be before that it they have
to search exactly what you put within
the brackets
but google opened it up where now it's
also accounting for things that are
closely related
as far as what closely related is we
don't have control over that that's on
google's hand so just make sure you're
checking your search terms report
and you're adding in negative keywords
of things that google determined that
were closely related but don't
necessarily fit your business goals
so here are some examples of searches we
would show up for with the exact match
type
we would show up for google ads
consultant we'd also show up for google
ads consultants
and we'd also show up possibly for
something like google ads consulting
because these
consultants and consulting are closely
related to our exact match keyword of
google ads
consultant now that we understand the
four different types of match types and
how they go about
regulating your keywords and the
different searches you show up for
let's go ahead and talk about the pros
and cons of each one
let's talk about the pros and cons of
each match type so when it comes to
broad match broad match the biggest pro
is it has tremendous visibility great
visibility meaning you're going to show
up for
a lot of different searches and with
this visibility
you might be able to find a lot of great
new keywords that you're not bidding on
that you can add as positive keywords to
bid on in your account
and to get in front of those potential
searches as well so it's really good for
casting out your net and finding a whole
bunch of different fish so to speak and
the fish in this case are different
search terms that you can add as
keywords
that can allow you to expand your
and to get in front of more people now
the biggest downside the con when it
comes to broad match is
this usually has the lowest
roi meaning you're gonna get a lot of
junk traffic and
with a lot of junk traffic means a lot
of additional
expenses a lot of additional clicks that
you're getting charged for
that are not necessarily producing
revenue leads sales
all that good stuff so that's the
biggest downside of broad match is it's
just so broad that you're gonna show up
for pretty much
almost anything that google deems is
relevant which is very scary
you don't want to give a google control
you want to give them as little control
as possible
and be in the driver's seat so you show
up for the right searches at the right
time in the right location
and then last but not least when it
comes to broad match if you do want to
use this
you just have to make sure you have a
really strong negative keyword list
because again you're going to be showing
up for so many different searches
by having that strong negative keyword
list you'll reduce the amount of junk
searches that you show up for
the next one is broad match modified the
biggest pro of broad match modified is
it's a good mix between broad match
visibility and also control so with
broad match modified
you're going to show up for any search
that has the different keywords
that you designated with that plus sign
so going back to google ads consultant
i'm going to show up for
any search let's say in the u.s that
somebody searched that has the words
google ads and consultant in it
regardless of the order and this is
going to be great for visibility because
i'm going to show up on all the
different searches
and this is also going to be great to
find new keywords
and the other thing too is with broad
match modified versus broad match is
i'll have less junk traffic than broad
match because i'm only going to show up
for all these different searches
as long as they have those words that i
specified with the plus symbol
now the biggest con of broad match is
you're going to still be pulling in a
lot of traffic a lot of searches
but if you don't have a strong negative
keyword list built out
you're going to get junk traffic as well
so that means your roi
is not going to be as high as if it was
with an exact match match type so you
probably get like a more moderate roi
and this is
again just uh an example this doesn't
mean that broad match modified can't be
your highest
highest roi match type i have accounts
where it is but i
also have a really strong negative
keyword list and that's very important
to note here too
so whenever using the broad match match
types you have to have a strong negative
keyword list
because you're going to be showing up
for all those different searches
that have the words that you specified
with the plus symbol the next match type
is freeze match and with phrase match
the biggest pro
is you're going to pull in a lot higher
quality traffic than you would in
comparison to the broad match
match types and that's because going
back to the google ads consultant
example
if someone goes to google.com i'm
telling google i only want you to show
my ads
if someone searches these specific words
in this exact order
in the locations i designate so if
someone goes to google.com
and they search google ads consultant
which i designated with the phrase match
the quotation marks
in the us then show my ads so you're
getting a lot more specific
on how you want google to go about
showing your ads and with that you're
going to pull in a lot higher quality
traffic
and reduce a lot of those junk searches
that you would have pulled in with the
broad match match types
with this level of refinement with the
phrase match match type you're going to
need a smaller negative keyword list
in comparison to the broad match match
types now with any match type you should
still be checking your search terms and
building your negative keyword list as
you go
but with phrase match since it's a lot
more targeted to just get started you
don't need
as large of a negative keyword list as
you would with broad match
typically with phrase match you can
expect an above average roi
because you're becoming much more
efficient on how you go about showing up
for different searches
and with that efficiency essentially
what you're doing is you're eliminating
the amount of waste that you would have
had to pay for so all those additional
junk searches
all those additional clicks that you
would have to pay for you're basically
taking them off the table
which means your cost per lead will
decrease your cost per acquisition will
decrease and your conversion rates will
increase
now the biggest downside with phrase
match is because you're being so
specific and targeted
on the types of searches you want your
ads to appear for you could be missing
out on a lot of visibility
and you can also be missing out on a lot
of potential revenue
of searches that are great for your
business that you just didn't show up
for
because your phrase match match type
didn't allow you to so that's the
biggest downside with phrase match is
you're going to have less visibility and
you have a
a lot higher likelihood to be leaving a
lot of money on the table
because you're just not showing up for
certain searches that are really good
for your business
because you have to remember people
search for the same thing
a thousand different ways so the more
specific you become on your match types
the greater likelihood you are missing
out on all those additional searches
last but not least we have exact match
an exact match the biggest pro
is with exact match you're gonna get the
highest quality traffic possible
because you are telling google i only
want you to show my ads
if they search this specific thing that
you designate with the brackets
so going back to the google ads
consultant example if somebody
in the united states searches google ads
consultant specifically on google
only then will i show up or if it's
something very closely related like
google ads consultants or maybe google
ads consulting
then i would only show up so i'm getting
very laser focused on the types of
searches that i want my ads to show up
for which means with this level of
refinement and targeting this is as
targeted as you can be in terms of match
types
the amount of negative keywords that i'm
going to need is almost minimal in this
case you should still check your search
terms because maybe some of those
closely
related search terms are not good for
your business and you can add them as
negative keywords
but with exact match you're basically
telling google i want you to show up for
almost
exactly as close to this specific thing
possible
so this is going to generate the highest
return on your investment possible
because you are literally showing up for
exactly what you want to at exactly the
right time in exactly the right location
now the biggest downside with exact
match similar to phrase match is
because it's so extremely specific you
can be leaving a lot of money on the
table potentially
because you're not showing up for all
these additional additional searches
that
people could be searching that is
related and very high intent for your
business
so that's the biggest downside with
exact match hope this video is valuable
as always i post a lot of content on
digital advertising and lead generation
so definitely check out these two videos
that i have here if you can give this
video a thumbs up that'll help out a ton
go ahead and join the google ads pro
facebook group if you want direct help
with your google ads campaigns and you
want to connect and network with other
google advertisers that are looking to
generate leads and grow their businesses
and also if you haven't already
subscribe to the channel for future
content
and i will see you in the next video
take care